                                                                        Elvis Dohmatob,
							     Parietal Team, INRIA /CEA,
							    Université de Paris-saclay,
							                        France.


Editors,
Plus Computational Biology

Please see enclosed, our manuscript entitled "Dark Control: A Unified Account of Default
Mode Function by Control Theory and Reinforcement Learning", to be considered for
publication in your journal.

In this opinion paper, we argue that the components of the DMN (default-mode network)
constitute sufficient neurobiological substrates to implement, in principle, a
complete reinforcement-learning (RL) agent for decision-making. Our research is at
the crossroads of the now encyclopedic literature on the DMN and the recent
resurgence of RL as a distinguished method for active-learning in uncertain
environments, subject to very limited modeling assumptions.

We begin by presenting a concise synthesis of the known neurobiology organisation of
the DMN, precisely postulating the would-be function of each component thereof:
posteromedial cortex for global monitoring and information integration; the prefrontal
cortex (PFC) for action consideration and stimulus-value association; the hippocampus
(HC) for memory, space, and experience replay; and the right/left TPJ for prediction
error-signaling and world semantics.

The key ideas in contemporary RL theory are recalled and dymistified: actions, rewards,
discounting, expected cumulative future rewards, Bellman backups, Q-learning, experience
replay, value approximation, etc. A clear correspondence between the different DMN nodes
and their integration on one hand, and the components of an RL agent on the other hand,
then emerges clearly. Thus the DMN would implement a RL algorithm responsible for the
core of decision-making mechanisms in the brain. This would in particular explain the
high metabolism observed in the DMN, which has largely remained unexplained.
This paper opens of rich avenue for studying the DMN objectively.

In preliminary experiments, we investigated the morphological coupling between the
reward system and the DMN. Results on 9,932 human subjects from the UKBioBank show
significant (R^2 = .12 +/-.002) coupling of inter-subject differences in the the volume
of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) --thought to encode instanteneous reward-- with that of
the dmPFC and the HC.

While looking forward to hearing from you, we thank you plentifully for your time
and consideration.

Yours sincerely,
Elvis Dohmatob, Guillaume Dumas, Danilo Bzdok
